Capstone : Choose my Own

For this project, you will be applying machine learning techniques that go beyond standard linear regression. You will have the opportunity to use a publicly available dataset to solve the problem of your choice. You are strongly discouraged from using well-known datasets, particularly ones that have been used as examples in previous courses or are similar to them (such as the iris, titanic, mnist, or movielens datasets, among others) - this is your opportunity to branch out and explore some new data! The UCI Machine Learning Repository External link(https://archive.ics.uci.edu/) and Kaggle External link(https://www.kaggle.com/datasets) are good places to seek out a dataset. Kaggle also maintains a curated list of datasets External link(https://www.kaggle.com/code/annavictoria/ml-friendly-public-datasets) that are cleaned and ready for machine learning analyses. Your dataset must be automatically downloaded in your code or included with your submission. You may not submit the same project for both the MovieLens and Choose Your Own project submissions, and your Choose Your Own project submission may not simply be a variation of your MovieLens project.

The ability to clearly communicate the process and insights gained from an analysis is an important skill for data scientists. You will submit a report that documents your analysis and presents your findings, with supporting statistics and figures. The report must be written in English and uploaded as both a PDF document and an Rmd file. Although the exact format is up to you, the report should include the following at a minimum:

an introduction/overview/executive summary section that describes the dataset and variables, and summarizes the goal of the project and key steps that were performed;
a methods/analysis section that explains the process and techniques used, including data cleaning, data exploration and visualization, insights gained, and your modeling approaches (you must use at least two different models or algorithms);
a results section that presents the modeling results and discusses the model performance; and
a conclusion section that gives a brief summary of the report, its potential impact, its limitations, and future work.
a references section that cites any resources (datasets, published articles, etc) used in your work, if applicable.
Your project submission will be graded both by your peers and by a staff member. The peer grading will give you an opportunity to check out the projects done by other learners. You are encouraged to give your peers thoughtful, specific feedback on their projects (i.e., more than just "good job" or "not enough detail").

The submission for the choose-your-own project will be three files: a report in the form of both a PDF document and Rmd file and the R script that performs your machine learning task. You must also provide access to your dataset, either through automatic download in your script or inclusion in a GitHub repository.

You are strongly discouraged from using well-known datasets, particularly ones that have been used as examples in previous courses or are similar to them. You may not submit the same project for both the MovieLens and Choose Your Own project submissions and your Choose Your Own project may not simply be a variation of your MovieLens project.

We recommend submitting a link to a GitHub repository with these three files and your dataset. Your grade for the project will be based on your report and your script.

Report and Script
Your report and script will be graded by your peers, based on a rubric defined by the course staff, as well as by the course staff. The staff grade will be your final grade for the project. Note that due to the volume of submissions and the number of graders, it can take up to four weeks to receive your staff grade, although we strive for a faster turnaround time! To receive your grade, you must review and grade the reports of five of your fellow learners after submitting your own. This will give you the chance to learn from your peers. You are encouraged to give your peers thoughful and specific feedback on their projects.

Please pay attention to the due dates listed! The project submission is due before the end of the course to allow time for peer grading. Also note that you must grade the reports of your peers by the course close date in order to receive your grade.